template/project-structure.mdx, before:

---
title: "Project Structure"
description: "Understanding the template project organization"
---

## Overview

The Lua CLI creates a clean, minimal project structure by default. You can optionally include examples with `--with-examples`.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Minimal (Default)">
    ```
    your-project/
    ├── src/
    │   └── index.ts           # Agent configuration (LuaAgent)
    ├── lua.skill.yaml         # Configuration (auto-managed)
    ├── package.json           # Dependencies
    ├── tsconfig.json          # TypeScript config
    ├── .env.example           # Environment template
    └── README.md              # Quick start guide
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="With Examples">
    ```
    your-project/
    ├── src/
    │   └── index.ts           # Agent configuration
    ├── examples/              # Example code (reference only)
    │   ├── skills/            # Example skills & tools
    │   │   ├── tools/         # Tool implementations
    │   │   └── *.skill.ts     # Skill definitions
    │   ├── webhooks/          # HTTP endpoint examples
    │   ├── jobs/              # Scheduled task examples
    │   ├── preprocessors/     # Message filter examples
    │   ├── postprocessors/    # Response formatter examples
    │   └── services/          # Helper utilities
    ├── lua.skill.yaml
    ├── package.json
    ├── tsconfig.json
    └── README.md
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="After You Build">
    ```
    your-project/
    ├── src/
    │   ├── index.ts           # Agent configuration
    │   ├── skills/            # Your skills
    │   │   ├── tools/         # Your tools
    │   │   └── my.skill.ts
    │   ├── webhooks/          # Your webhooks (optional)
    │   ├── jobs/              # Your jobs (optional)
    │   └── services/          # Your utilities (optional)
    ├── dist/                  # Compiled output (auto-generated)
    ├── .lua/                  # CLI cache (auto-generated)
    ├── node_modules/          # Dependencies
    ├── lua.skill.yaml
    ├── package.json
    ├── tsconfig.json
    └── .env                   # Your environment variables
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Core Files

### src/index.ts

**Your agent's main configuration file.**

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from "lua-cli";

const agent = new LuaAgent({
    name: `my-agent`,
    persona: `You are a helpful assistant...`,
    
    skills: [],        // Add your skills here
    
    // Optional components:
    // webhooks: [],
    // jobs: [],
    // preProcessors: [],
    // postProcessors: [],
});
```

### lua.skill.yaml

**Auto-managed configuration file.** Set during `lua init`, updated by CLI commands.

```yaml
agent:
  agentId: agent_abc123
  orgId: org_xyz789
  persona: "..."

skills:
  - name: my-skill
    version: 1.0.0
    skillId: skill_xyz  # Auto-created during compile
```

<Warning>
Don't manually edit `skillId`, `webhookId`, or `jobId` - they're auto-managed!
</Warning>

### package.json

Standard Node.js package configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "lua-skill",
  "type": "module",
  "dependencies": {
    "lua-cli": "^3.1.0",
    "zod": "^3.24.1"
  }
}
```

## Building Your Project

### Recommended Structure

As your project grows, organize it like this:

```
src/
├── index.ts                    # Agent configuration
├── skills/
│   ├── tools/                  # Tool implementations
│   │   ├── WeatherTool.ts
│   │   ├── ProductTools.ts     # Multiple related tools
│   │   └── OrderTool.ts
│   ├── weather.skill.ts        # Weather skill
│   └── ecommerce.skill.ts      # E-commerce skill
├── webhooks/                   # (Optional) HTTP endpoints
│   └── PaymentWebhook.ts
├── jobs/                       # (Optional) Scheduled tasks
│   └── DailyReportJob.ts
└── services/                   # (Optional) Shared utilities
    └── ApiClient.ts
```

### File Naming Conventions

| Type | Pattern | Example |
|------|---------|---------|
| Tools | `*Tool.ts` or `*Tools.ts` | `WeatherTool.ts`, `ProductTools.ts` |
| Skills | `*.skill.ts` | `weather.skill.ts` |
| Webhooks | `*Webhook.ts` | `PaymentWebhook.ts` |
| Jobs | `*Job.ts` | `DailyReportJob.ts` |
| Preprocessors | `*.preprocessor.ts` | `filter.preprocessor.ts` |
| Postprocessors | `*.postprocessor.ts` | `format.postprocessor.ts` |

## Auto-Generated Directories

### dist/

Compiled JavaScript output. Created by `lua compile`.

```
dist/
├── deployment.json       # Deployment metadata
├── index.js             # Compiled main file
└── tools/               # Compiled tool bundles
```

### .lua/

CLI cache directory. Safe to delete - will be regenerated.

## Environment Files

### .env

Your local environment variables (create this file):

```bash
# External API Keys
STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_abc123
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...

# Configuration
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
```

<Warning>
Add `.env` to `.gitignore` - never commit secrets!
</Warning>

### .env.example

Template for environment variables (commit this):

```bash
STRIPE_API_KEY=your_stripe_key_here
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
```

## Git Configuration

### ✅ Commit These

```
.gitignore
.env.example
lua.skill.yaml
package.json
tsconfig.json
README.md
src/
```

### ❌ Don't Commit These

```
.env
node_modules/
dist/
.lua/
```

### Sample .gitignore

```
# Dependencies
node_modules/

# Build output
dist/
.lua/

# Environment
.env
.env.local
.env.*.local

# OS
.DS_Store

# IDE
.vscode/
.idea/
```

## Project Size Patterns

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Small (1-5 tools)">
    ```
    src/
    ├── index.ts
    └── skills/
        ├── tools/
        │   └── MyTools.ts    # All tools in one file
        └── my.skill.ts
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Medium (5-15 tools)">
    ```
    src/
    ├── index.ts
    └── skills/
        ├── tools/
        │   ├── WeatherTool.ts
        │   ├── UserTools.ts
        │   └── ProductTools.ts
        ├── weather.skill.ts
        └── commerce.skill.ts
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Large (15+ tools)">
    ```
    src/
    ├── index.ts
    ├── skills/
    │   ├── weather/
    │   │   ├── tools/
    │   │   └── weather.skill.ts
    │   ├── commerce/
    │   │   ├── tools/
    │   │   └── commerce.skill.ts
    │   └── support/
    │       ├── tools/
    │       └── support.skill.ts
    ├── webhooks/
    ├── jobs/
    └── services/
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Building Skills" icon="hammer" href="/template/building-skills">
    Learn how to build custom skills
  </Card>
  <Card title="Best Practices" icon="star" href="/template/best-practices">
    Follow recommended patterns
  </Card>
  <Card title="API Reference" icon="server" href="/api/overview">
    Available platform APIs
  </Card>
  <Card title="Examples" icon="code" href="/examples/overview">
    See working code examples
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs: update for state-only lua.skill.yaml architecture
YAML Structure:
- Remove persona from lua.skill.yaml examples (now stored in LuaAgent code)
- Remove env block from YAML examples (server-managed via `lua env`)
- Remove schedule from job YAML examples (defined in LuaJob code)
- Update lua.skill.yaml description as "state-only" manifest

Documentation Updates:
- api/environment.mdx: Remove YAML as env source, update error messages
- api/luaagent.mdx: Update "Auto-Sync" to "Persona Storage" section
- cli/overview.mdx: Clarify YAML contains IDs/versions only
- cli/persona-command.mdx: Update storage location to code
- cli/skill-management.mdx: Add note about persona in code
- concepts/environment-variables.mdx: Remove Method 2 (YAML), update troubleshooting
- examples/payment.mdx: Update env error messages
- overview/agent.mdx: Rename "Auto-Sync" card to "State Tracking"
- template/project-structure.mdx: Remove persona from YAML example

Aligns with lua-cli state-only YAML refactor

template/project-structure.mdx, after:

---
title: "Project Structure"
description: "Understanding the template project organization"
---

## Overview

The Lua CLI creates a clean, minimal project structure by default. You can optionally include examples with `--with-examples`.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Minimal (Default)">
    ```
    your-project/
    ├── src/
    │   └── index.ts           # Agent configuration (LuaAgent)
    ├── lua.skill.yaml         # Configuration (auto-managed)
    ├── package.json           # Dependencies
    ├── tsconfig.json          # TypeScript config
    ├── .env.example           # Environment template
    └── README.md              # Quick start guide
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="With Examples">
    ```
    your-project/
    ├── src/
    │   └── index.ts           # Agent configuration
    ├── examples/              # Example code (reference only)
    │   ├── skills/            # Example skills & tools
    │   │   ├── tools/         # Tool implementations
    │   │   └── *.skill.ts     # Skill definitions
    │   ├── webhooks/          # HTTP endpoint examples
    │   ├── jobs/              # Scheduled task examples
    │   ├── preprocessors/     # Message filter examples
    │   ├── postprocessors/    # Response formatter examples
    │   └── services/          # Helper utilities
    ├── lua.skill.yaml
    ├── package.json
    ├── tsconfig.json
    └── README.md
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="After You Build">
    ```
    your-project/
    ├── src/
    │   ├── index.ts           # Agent configuration
    │   ├── skills/            # Your skills
    │   │   ├── tools/         # Your tools
    │   │   └── my.skill.ts
    │   ├── webhooks/          # Your webhooks (optional)
    │   ├── jobs/              # Your jobs (optional)
    │   └── services/          # Your utilities (optional)
    ├── dist/                  # Compiled output (auto-generated)
    ├── .lua/                  # CLI cache (auto-generated)
    ├── node_modules/          # Dependencies
    ├── lua.skill.yaml
    ├── package.json
    ├── tsconfig.json
    └── .env                   # Your environment variables
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Core Files

### src/index.ts

**Your agent's main configuration file.**

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from "lua-cli";

const agent = new LuaAgent({
    name: `my-agent`,
    persona: `You are a helpful assistant...`,
    
    skills: [],        // Add your skills here
    
    // Optional components:
    // webhooks: [],
    // jobs: [],
    // preProcessors: [],
    // postProcessors: [],
});
```

### lua.skill.yaml

**Auto-managed configuration file.** Set during `lua init`, updated by CLI commands.

```yaml
agent:
  agentId: agent_abc123
  orgId: org_xyz789

skills:
  - name: my-skill
    version: 1.0.0
    skillId: skill_xyz  # Auto-created during compile
```

<Note>
Persona is stored in your `LuaAgent` code (in `src/index.ts`), not in YAML. The YAML file is state-only and tracks IDs and versions.
</Note>

<Warning>
Don't manually edit `skillId`, `webhookId`, or `jobId` - they're auto-managed!
</Warning>

### package.json

Standard Node.js package configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "lua-skill",
  "type": "module",
  "dependencies": {
    "lua-cli": "^3.1.0",
    "zod": "^3.24.1"
  }
}
```

## Building Your Project

### Recommended Structure

As your project grows, organize it like this:

```
src/
├── index.ts                    # Agent configuration
├── skills/
│   ├── tools/                  # Tool implementations
│   │   ├── WeatherTool.ts
│   │   ├── ProductTools.ts     # Multiple related tools
│   │   └── OrderTool.ts
│   ├── weather.skill.ts        # Weather skill
│   └── ecommerce.skill.ts      # E-commerce skill
├── webhooks/                   # (Optional) HTTP endpoints
│   └── PaymentWebhook.ts
├── jobs/                       # (Optional) Scheduled tasks
│   └── DailyReportJob.ts
└── services/                   # (Optional) Shared utilities
    └── ApiClient.ts
```

### File Naming Conventions

| Type | Pattern | Example |
|------|---------|---------|
| Tools | `*Tool.ts` or `*Tools.ts` | `WeatherTool.ts`, `ProductTools.ts` |
| Skills | `*.skill.ts` | `weather.skill.ts` |
| Webhooks | `*Webhook.ts` | `PaymentWebhook.ts` |
| Jobs | `*Job.ts` | `DailyReportJob.ts` |
| Preprocessors | `*.preprocessor.ts` | `filter.preprocessor.ts` |
| Postprocessors | `*.postprocessor.ts` | `format.postprocessor.ts` |

## Auto-Generated Directories

### dist/

Compiled JavaScript output. Created by `lua compile`.

```
dist/
├── deployment.json       # Deployment metadata
├── index.js             # Compiled main file
└── tools/               # Compiled tool bundles
```

### .lua/

CLI cache directory. Safe to delete - will be regenerated.

## Environment Files

### .env

Your local environment variables (create this file):

```bash
# External API Keys
STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_abc123
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...

# Configuration
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
```

<Warning>
Add `.env` to `.gitignore` - never commit secrets!
</Warning>

### .env.example

Template for environment variables (commit this):

```bash
STRIPE_API_KEY=your_stripe_key_here
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
```

## Git Configuration

### ✅ Commit These

```
.gitignore
.env.example
lua.skill.yaml
package.json
tsconfig.json
README.md
src/
```

### ❌ Don't Commit These

```
.env
node_modules/
dist/
.lua/
```

### Sample .gitignore

```
# Dependencies
node_modules/

# Build output
dist/
.lua/

# Environment
.env
.env.local
.env.*.local

# OS
.DS_Store

# IDE
.vscode/
.idea/
```

## Project Size Patterns

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Small (1-5 tools)">
    ```
    src/
    ├── index.ts
    └── skills/
        ├── tools/
        │   └── MyTools.ts    # All tools in one file
        └── my.skill.ts
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Medium (5-15 tools)">
    ```
    src/
    ├── index.ts
    └── skills/
        ├── tools/
        │   ├── WeatherTool.ts
        │   ├── UserTools.ts
        │   └── ProductTools.ts
        ├── weather.skill.ts
        └── commerce.skill.ts
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Large (15+ tools)">
    ```
    src/
    ├── index.ts
    ├── skills/
    │   ├── weather/
    │   │   ├── tools/
    │   │   └── weather.skill.ts
    │   ├── commerce/
    │   │   ├── tools/
    │   │   └── commerce.skill.ts
    │   └── support/
    │       ├── tools/
    │       └── support.skill.ts
    ├── webhooks/
    ├── jobs/
    └── services/
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Building Skills" icon="hammer" href="/template/building-skills">
    Learn how to build custom skills
  </Card>
  <Card title="Best Practices" icon="star" href="/template/best-practices">
    Follow recommended patterns
  </Card>
  <Card title="API Reference" icon="server" href="/api/overview">
    Available platform APIs
  </Card>
  <Card title="Examples" icon="code" href="/examples/overview">
    See working code examples
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
