chat-widget/examples.mdx, before:

---
title: "Examples & Use Cases"
description: "Real-world implementation examples for different industries"
---

## Customer Support Widget

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Customer Support Example</title>
</head>
<body>
  <header>
    <h1>Welcome to Our Business</h1>
  </header>

  <main>
    <p>We're here to help 24/7!</p>
  </main>

  <script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
  <script>
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "customer-support",
      chatTitle: "Customer Support",
      buttonText: "💬 Get Help",
      position: "bottom-right",
      chatInputPlaceholder: "How can we help you today?"
    });
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

## E-commerce Shopping Assistant

```html
<script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
<script>
  window.LuaPop.init({
    agentId: "shopping-assistant",
    chatTitle: "Shopping Assistant",
    buttonText: "🛒 Shop Help",
    buttonColor: "#e74c3c",
    position: "bottom-right",

    onNavigate: (pathname, options) => {
      // Navigate to product pages
      if (pathname.startsWith('/product/')) {
        window.location.href = pathname;
      }
    }
  });

  // Track shopping events
  window.addEventListener('message', function(event) {
    if (event.data && event.data.type === 'LUA_POP_EVENT') {
      console.log('Shopping event:', event.data.eventType);
    }
  });
</script>
```

## Hotel Booking Assistant

```html
<script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
<script>
  window.LuaPop.init({
    agentId: "hotel-concierge",
    chatTitle: "Hotel Concierge",
    buttonText: "🛎️ Concierge",
    buttonColor: "#d4af37",
    position: "bottom-right",

    popupButtonStyles: {
      borderRadius: "50%",
      width: "70px",
      height: "70px",
      boxShadow: "0 4px 20px rgba(212, 175, 55, 0.3)"
    },
    
    chatTitleHeaderStyles: {
      background: "linear-gradient(135deg, #d4af37, #ffd700)",
      color: "#2c3e50"
    },
    
    chatHeaderSubtitle: {
      visible: true,
      brandName: "Luxury Resort & Spa",
      iconUrl: "/hotel-logo.png"
    }
  });
</script>
```

## SaaS Onboarding Assistant

```javascript
// Check if user is new
const isNewUser = !localStorage.getItem('user_onboarded');

window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "onboarding-assistant",
  chatTitle: "Onboarding Assistant",
  buttonText: isNewUser ? "🚀 Get Started" : "💡 Need Help?",
  buttonColor: "#9b59b6",
  position: "bottom-right",
  voiceModeEnabled: true,
  sessionId: `user-${Date.now()}`,
  
  onNavigate: (pathname, options) => {
    const section = pathname.replace('/', '');
    document.getElementById(section)?.scrollIntoView({ behavior: 'smooth' });
  }
});

// Auto-open for new users
if (isNewUser) {
  setTimeout(() => {
    document.querySelector('.lua-pop-button')?.click();
    localStorage.setItem('user_onboarded', 'true');
  }, 2000);
}
```

## Embedded Documentation Chat

```html
<div style="display: flex; gap: 20px;">
  <!-- Documentation content -->
  <div style="flex: 1;">
    <h1>Documentation</h1>
    <p>API reference and guides...</p>
  </div>
  
  <!-- Embedded chat assistant -->
  <div id="docs-chat" style="width: 400px; height: 800px; border: 1px solid #ddd; border-radius: 8px;"></div>
</div>

<script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
<script>
  window.LuaPop.init({
    agentId: "docs-assistant",
    displayMode: "embedded",
    embeddedDisplayConfig: {
      targetContainerId: "docs-chat"
    },
    chatTitle: "Documentation Assistant",
    chatInputPlaceholder: "Search documentation..."
  });
</script>
```

## Conditional Loading

```javascript
class ConditionalChatLoader {
  constructor() {
    this.shouldLoad = this.checkConditions();
    if (this.shouldLoad) {
      this.loadChat();
    }
  }

  checkConditions() {
    // Only load on support pages
    if (window.location.pathname.includes('/support')) return true;
    
    // Only load for logged-in users
    if (document.cookie.includes('user_logged_in=true')) return true;
    
    // Only load during business hours
    const hour = new Date().getHours();
    if (hour >= 9 && hour <= 17) return true;
    
    return false;
  }

  loadChat() {
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "conditional-agent",
      position: "bottom-right"
    });
  }
}

new ConditionalChatLoader();
```

## Multi-Agent Setup

```javascript
// Different agents for different pages
const agentMap = {
  '/': 'general-support',
  '/pricing': 'sales-agent',
  '/docs': 'technical-support',
  '/support': 'customer-service'
};

function getAgentForPage() {
  const path = window.location.pathname;
  return agentMap[path] || agentMap['/'];
}

window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: getAgentForPage(),
  position: "bottom-right",
  runtimeContext: `page:${window.location.pathname}`
});
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Configuration" icon="cog" href="/chat-widget/configuration">
    All configuration options
  </Card>
  <Card title="Migration" icon="arrows-turn-right" href="/chat-widget/migration">
    Migrate from other chat widgets
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs(chat-widget): add welcomeMessage configuration documentation
Add comprehensive documentation for the welcomeMessage configuration option
across all chat widget documentation pages. This option was previously missing
from the documentation despite being available in the codebase.

Changes:
- Add welcomeMessage ParamField to configuration.mdx with default value and description
- Update complete example in configuration.mdx to include welcomeMessage
- Add welcomeMessage to all example implementations in examples.mdx:
  - Customer Support example
  - E-commerce Shopping Assistant
  - Hotel Booking Assistant
  - SaaS Onboarding Assistant (with dynamic message based on user state)
  - Embedded Documentation Chat
- Add welcomeMessage to Customer Support example in quick-start.mdx
- Add welcomeMessage to complete styling example in styling.mdx
- Update TypeScript interface in frameworks.mdx to include welcomeMessage, chatInputPlaceholder, and chatTitle
- Add welcomeMessage to Intercom migration example in migration.mdx
- Add welcomeMessage row to Configuration Mapping table in migration.mdx
- Add welcomeMessage to Hands-Free voice chat example in voice-chat.mdx
- Remove trailing artifact (EOFEX) from migration.mdx

chat-widget/examples.mdx, after:

---
title: "Examples & Use Cases"
description: "Real-world implementation examples for different industries"
---

## Customer Support Widget

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Customer Support Example</title>
</head>
<body>
  <header>
    <h1>Welcome to Our Business</h1>
  </header>

  <main>
    <p>We're here to help 24/7!</p>
  </main>

  <script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
  <script>
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "customer-support",
      chatTitle: "Customer Support",
      buttonText: "💬 Get Help",
      position: "bottom-right",
      welcomeMessage: "Hi there! 👋 How can we help you today?",
      chatInputPlaceholder: "Describe your issue..."
    });
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

## E-commerce Shopping Assistant

```html
<script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
<script>
  window.LuaPop.init({
    agentId: "shopping-assistant",
    chatTitle: "Shopping Assistant",
    buttonText: "🛒 Shop Help",
    buttonColor: "#e74c3c",
    position: "bottom-right",
    welcomeMessage: "Welcome! 🛍️ Looking for something specific? I can help you find the perfect product!",

    onNavigate: (pathname, options) => {
      // Navigate to product pages
      if (pathname.startsWith('/product/')) {
        window.location.href = pathname;
      }
    }
  });

  // Track shopping events
  window.addEventListener('message', function(event) {
    if (event.data && event.data.type === 'LUA_POP_EVENT') {
      console.log('Shopping event:', event.data.eventType);
    }
  });
</script>
```

## Hotel Booking Assistant

```html
<script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
<script>
  window.LuaPop.init({
    agentId: "hotel-concierge",
    chatTitle: "Hotel Concierge",
    buttonText: "🛎️ Concierge",
    buttonColor: "#d4af37",
    position: "bottom-right",
    welcomeMessage: "Welcome to Luxury Resort & Spa! 🌴 How may I assist you with your stay today?",

    popupButtonStyles: {
      borderRadius: "50%",
      width: "70px",
      height: "70px",
      boxShadow: "0 4px 20px rgba(212, 175, 55, 0.3)"
    },
    
    chatTitleHeaderStyles: {
      background: "linear-gradient(135deg, #d4af37, #ffd700)",
      color: "#2c3e50"
    },
    
    chatHeaderSubtitle: {
      visible: true,
      brandName: "Luxury Resort & Spa",
      iconUrl: "/hotel-logo.png"
    }
  });
</script>
```

## SaaS Onboarding Assistant

```javascript
// Check if user is new
const isNewUser = !localStorage.getItem('user_onboarded');

window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "onboarding-assistant",
  chatTitle: "Onboarding Assistant",
  buttonText: isNewUser ? "🚀 Get Started" : "💡 Need Help?",
  buttonColor: "#9b59b6",
  position: "bottom-right",
  welcomeMessage: isNewUser 
    ? "Welcome aboard! 🚀 I'm here to help you get started. What would you like to set up first?"
    : "Hey! 👋 Need help with anything?",
  voiceModeEnabled: true,
  sessionId: `user-${Date.now()}`,
  
  onNavigate: (pathname, options) => {
    const section = pathname.replace('/', '');
    document.getElementById(section)?.scrollIntoView({ behavior: 'smooth' });
  }
});

// Auto-open for new users
if (isNewUser) {
  setTimeout(() => {
    document.querySelector('.lua-pop-button')?.click();
    localStorage.setItem('user_onboarded', 'true');
  }, 2000);
}
```

## Embedded Documentation Chat

```html
<div style="display: flex; gap: 20px;">
  <!-- Documentation content -->
  <div style="flex: 1;">
    <h1>Documentation</h1>
    <p>API reference and guides...</p>
  </div>
  
  <!-- Embedded chat assistant -->
  <div id="docs-chat" style="width: 400px; height: 800px; border: 1px solid #ddd; border-radius: 8px;"></div>
</div>

<script src="https://lua-ai-global.github.io/lua-pop/lua-pop.umd.js"></script>
<script>
  window.LuaPop.init({
    agentId: "docs-assistant",
    displayMode: "embedded",
    embeddedDisplayConfig: {
      targetContainerId: "docs-chat"
    },
    chatTitle: "Documentation Assistant",
    welcomeMessage: "Hi! I can help you find anything in our documentation. What are you looking for?",
    chatInputPlaceholder: "Search documentation..."
  });
</script>
```

## Conditional Loading

```javascript
class ConditionalChatLoader {
  constructor() {
    this.shouldLoad = this.checkConditions();
    if (this.shouldLoad) {
      this.loadChat();
    }
  }

  checkConditions() {
    // Only load on support pages
    if (window.location.pathname.includes('/support')) return true;
    
    // Only load for logged-in users
    if (document.cookie.includes('user_logged_in=true')) return true;
    
    // Only load during business hours
    const hour = new Date().getHours();
    if (hour >= 9 && hour <= 17) return true;
    
    return false;
  }

  loadChat() {
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "conditional-agent",
      position: "bottom-right"
    });
  }
}

new ConditionalChatLoader();
```

## Multi-Agent Setup

```javascript
// Different agents for different pages
const agentMap = {
  '/': 'general-support',
  '/pricing': 'sales-agent',
  '/docs': 'technical-support',
  '/support': 'customer-service'
};

function getAgentForPage() {
  const path = window.location.pathname;
  return agentMap[path] || agentMap['/'];
}

window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: getAgentForPage(),
  position: "bottom-right",
  runtimeContext: `page:${window.location.pathname}`
});
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Configuration" icon="cog" href="/chat-widget/configuration">
    All configuration options
  </Card>
  <Card title="Migration" icon="arrows-turn-right" href="/chat-widget/migration">
    Migrate from other chat widgets
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
