chat-widget/voice-chat.mdx, before:

---
title: "Voice Chat"
description: "Enable voice interactions in your chat widget"
---

## Overview

LuaPop supports optional voice chat functionality, allowing users to speak with your AI agent instead of typing.

## Enable Voice Chat

```javascript
window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "your-agent-id",
  position: "bottom-right",
  voiceModeEnabled: true  // ✅ Enable voice chat
});
```

## Features

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Speech-to-Text" icon="microphone">
    Users can speak their messages
  </Card>
  <Card title="Text-to-Speech" icon="volume-high">
    AI responses can be spoken aloud
  </Card>
  <Card title="Multi-Language" icon="globe">
    Supports multiple languages
  </Card>
  <Card title="Hands-Free" icon="hand">
    Great for accessibility and mobile
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## How It Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="User Activates Voice">
    User clicks microphone icon in chat input
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Browser Requests Permission">
    Browser asks for microphone access
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="User Speaks">
    User speaks their message
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Speech-to-Text">
    Audio converted to text automatically
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="AI Responds">
    AI processes and responds as normal
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Text-to-Speech (Optional)">
    Response can be played as audio
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Use Cases

### Accessibility

Voice chat improves accessibility for:
- Users with motor impairments
- Users who prefer speaking
- Hands-free scenarios
- Visually impaired users

### Mobile Users

Perfect for mobile where typing is harder:

```javascript
const isMobile = window.innerWidth <= 768;

window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "mobile-agent",
  voiceModeEnabled: isMobile, // Enable on mobile only
  buttonText: isMobile ? "🎤 Voice Chat" : "💬 Chat"
});
```

### Driving/Hands-Free

Ideal for automotive or hands-free scenarios:

```javascript
window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "hands-free-agent",
  voiceModeEnabled: true,
  chatTitle: "Voice Assistant",
  buttonText: "🎤 Voice Chat",
  chatInputPlaceholder: "Click mic to speak..."
});
```

## Browser Support

Voice chat requires:
- Modern browser with Web Speech API
- HTTPS connection (required for microphone access)
- User permission for microphone

### Supported Browsers

| Browser | Speech-to-Text | Text-to-Speech |
|---------|---------------|----------------|
| Chrome | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Safari | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Firefox | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Edge | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Mobile Safari | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Chrome Mobile | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |

## Privacy & Permissions

<Warning>
Voice chat requires user permission to access the microphone. Users must explicitly grant permission.
</Warning>

### Permission Handling

The widget automatically:
1. Requests microphone permission when needed
2. Shows appropriate UI if permission denied
3. Gracefully falls back to text-only chat

### Privacy

- Audio is processed in real-time
- No audio recordings are stored locally
- Audio converted to text server-side
- GDPR compliant

## Best Practices

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Require HTTPS">
    Voice chat only works on HTTPS:
    ```javascript
    const isSecure = window.location.protocol === 'https:';
    
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "your-agent-id",
      voiceModeEnabled: isSecure // Only enable on HTTPS
    });
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Show Voice Indicator">
    Let users know voice is available:
    ```javascript
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "your-agent-id",
      voiceModeEnabled: true,
      buttonText: "🎤 Voice Chat Available"
    });
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Mobile-First for Voice">
    Voice chat is especially useful on mobile:
    ```javascript
    const isMobile = window.innerWidth <= 768;
    
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "your-agent-id",
      voiceModeEnabled: true,
      buttonText: isMobile ? "🎤" : "💬 Chat",
      chatInputPlaceholder: isMobile 
        ? "Tap mic to speak" 
        : "Type or click mic to speak"
    });
    ```
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Configuration" icon="cog" href="/chat-widget/configuration">
    All configuration options
  </Card>
  <Card title="Examples" icon="layer-group" href="/chat-widget/examples">
    See voice chat implementations
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs(chat-widget): add welcomeMessage configuration documentation
Add comprehensive documentation for the welcomeMessage configuration option
across all chat widget documentation pages. This option was previously missing
from the documentation despite being available in the codebase.

Changes:
- Add welcomeMessage ParamField to configuration.mdx with default value and description
- Update complete example in configuration.mdx to include welcomeMessage
- Add welcomeMessage to all example implementations in examples.mdx:
  - Customer Support example
  - E-commerce Shopping Assistant
  - Hotel Booking Assistant
  - SaaS Onboarding Assistant (with dynamic message based on user state)
  - Embedded Documentation Chat
- Add welcomeMessage to Customer Support example in quick-start.mdx
- Add welcomeMessage to complete styling example in styling.mdx
- Update TypeScript interface in frameworks.mdx to include welcomeMessage, chatInputPlaceholder, and chatTitle
- Add welcomeMessage to Intercom migration example in migration.mdx
- Add welcomeMessage row to Configuration Mapping table in migration.mdx
- Add welcomeMessage to Hands-Free voice chat example in voice-chat.mdx
- Remove trailing artifact (EOFEX) from migration.mdx

chat-widget/voice-chat.mdx, after:

---
title: "Voice Chat"
description: "Enable voice interactions in your chat widget"
---

## Overview

LuaPop supports optional voice chat functionality, allowing users to speak with your AI agent instead of typing.

## Enable Voice Chat

```javascript
window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "your-agent-id",
  position: "bottom-right",
  voiceModeEnabled: true  // ✅ Enable voice chat
});
```

## Features

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Speech-to-Text" icon="microphone">
    Users can speak their messages
  </Card>
  <Card title="Text-to-Speech" icon="volume-high">
    AI responses can be spoken aloud
  </Card>
  <Card title="Multi-Language" icon="globe">
    Supports multiple languages
  </Card>
  <Card title="Hands-Free" icon="hand">
    Great for accessibility and mobile
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## How It Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="User Activates Voice">
    User clicks microphone icon in chat input
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Browser Requests Permission">
    Browser asks for microphone access
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="User Speaks">
    User speaks their message
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Speech-to-Text">
    Audio converted to text automatically
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="AI Responds">
    AI processes and responds as normal
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Text-to-Speech (Optional)">
    Response can be played as audio
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Use Cases

### Accessibility

Voice chat improves accessibility for:
- Users with motor impairments
- Users who prefer speaking
- Hands-free scenarios
- Visually impaired users

### Mobile Users

Perfect for mobile where typing is harder:

```javascript
const isMobile = window.innerWidth <= 768;

window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "mobile-agent",
  voiceModeEnabled: isMobile, // Enable on mobile only
  buttonText: isMobile ? "🎤 Voice Chat" : "💬 Chat"
});
```

### Driving/Hands-Free

Ideal for automotive or hands-free scenarios:

```javascript
window.LuaPop.init({
  agentId: "hands-free-agent",
  voiceModeEnabled: true,
  chatTitle: "Voice Assistant",
  buttonText: "🎤 Voice Chat",
  welcomeMessage: "Hi! I'm your voice assistant. Tap the microphone to speak to me.",
  chatInputPlaceholder: "Click mic to speak..."
});
```

## Browser Support

Voice chat requires:
- Modern browser with Web Speech API
- HTTPS connection (required for microphone access)
- User permission for microphone

### Supported Browsers

| Browser | Speech-to-Text | Text-to-Speech |
|---------|---------------|----------------|
| Chrome | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Safari | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Firefox | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Edge | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Mobile Safari | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| Chrome Mobile | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |

## Privacy & Permissions

<Warning>
Voice chat requires user permission to access the microphone. Users must explicitly grant permission.
</Warning>

### Permission Handling

The widget automatically:
1. Requests microphone permission when needed
2. Shows appropriate UI if permission denied
3. Gracefully falls back to text-only chat

### Privacy

- Audio is processed in real-time
- No audio recordings are stored locally
- Audio converted to text server-side
- GDPR compliant

## Best Practices

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Require HTTPS">
    Voice chat only works on HTTPS:
    ```javascript
    const isSecure = window.location.protocol === 'https:';
    
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "your-agent-id",
      voiceModeEnabled: isSecure // Only enable on HTTPS
    });
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Show Voice Indicator">
    Let users know voice is available:
    ```javascript
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "your-agent-id",
      voiceModeEnabled: true,
      buttonText: "🎤 Voice Chat Available"
    });
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Mobile-First for Voice">
    Voice chat is especially useful on mobile:
    ```javascript
    const isMobile = window.innerWidth <= 768;
    
    window.LuaPop.init({
      agentId: "your-agent-id",
      voiceModeEnabled: true,
      buttonText: isMobile ? "🎤" : "💬 Chat",
      chatInputPlaceholder: isMobile 
        ? "Tap mic to speak" 
        : "Type or click mic to speak"
    });
    ```
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Configuration" icon="cog" href="/chat-widget/configuration">
    All configuration options
  </Card>
  <Card title="Examples" icon="layer-group" href="/chat-widget/examples">
    See voice chat implementations
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
