concepts/skills-and-tools.mdx, before:

---
title: "Skills & Tools"
description: "Understanding the core building blocks of Lua CLI"
---

## What is Lua?

Lua is a platform for building AI agents with custom capabilities. Think of it like:

```
AI Agent (ChatGPT-like)
    └── Skills (Custom capabilities you build)
        └── Tools (Specific functions the AI can call)
```

## Skills

A **skill** is a collection of related tools that give your AI agent specific capabilities.

### Example: Coffee Shop Skill

```typescript
import { LuaSkill } from "lua-cli";

const coffeeSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "coffee-shop-skill",
  description: "Coffee shop assistant with menu, ordering, and loyalty features",
  context: `
    This skill helps customers of Java Junction Coffee Shop.
    
    - Use show_menu to display available drinks and food
    - Use create_order to take customer orders
    - Use check_loyalty_points to show rewards balance
    - Use redeem_reward to apply loyalty discounts
    
    Always mention daily specials.
    Ask about size preferences for drinks.
  `,
  tools: [
    new ShowMenuTool(),
    new CreateOrderTool(),
    new CheckLoyaltyTool(),
    new RedeemRewardTool()
  ]
});
```

### Skill Properties

<ParamField path="name" type="string" required>
  Unique identifier for the skill (e.g., "coffee-shop-skill")
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="description" type="string" required>
  Brief description (1-2 sentences) of what the skill does
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="context" type="string" required>
  Detailed instructions for the AI on when and how to use the tools. This is critical for proper tool selection!
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="tools" type="LuaTool[]">
  Array of tool instances to include in the skill
</ParamField>

### Writing Good Context

The `context` field guides the AI's decision-making. Write it like instructions to a smart assistant:

<CodeGroup>

```typescript Good Context
context: `
  This skill manages customer orders for a coffee shop.

  Tool Usage:
  - show_menu: Use when customers ask what's available. Returns drinks and food items.
  - create_order: Use when taking an order. Confirm items and sizes first.
  - modify_order: Use to add/remove items. Ask which item to modify.
  - finalize_order: Use when order is confirmed. Returns total and wait time.

  Guidelines:
  - Always ask about size for drinks (small/medium/large)
  - Mention daily special when showing menu
  - Confirm total before finalizing
  - Ask about dietary restrictions for food items
`
```

```typescript Bad Context
context: "A skill with tools for stuff"
```

</CodeGroup>

## Tools

A **tool** is a single function that the AI can call to accomplish a specific task.

### Anatomy of a Tool

```typescript
import { LuaTool } from 'lua-cli';
import { z } from 'zod';

export default class GetWeatherTool implements LuaTool {
  // Unique identifier (lowercase, alphanumeric, hyphens, underscores)
  name = "get_weather";
  
  // Clear description of what the tool does
  description = "Get current weather conditions for any city";
  
  // Zod schema defining valid inputs
  inputSchema = z.object({
    city: z.string().describe("City name (e.g., 'London', 'Tokyo')"),
    units: z.enum(['metric', 'imperial']).optional().default('metric')
  });

  // Async function that implements the logic
  async execute(input: z.infer<typeof this.inputSchema>) {
    // input is automatically validated and typed
    const { city, units } = input;
    
    // Call weather API
    const weather = await fetchWeather(city, units);
    
    // Return structured data
    return {
      temperature: weather.temp,
      condition: weather.condition,
      city: weather.location
    };
  }
}
```

### Tool Properties

<ParamField path="name" type="string" required>
  Unique identifier using only: `a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `-`, `_`
  
  Examples: `get_weather`, `create-product`, `sendEmail123`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="description" type="string" required>
  Clear, concise description (1 sentence) of what the tool does
  
  Helps the AI understand when to use this tool
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="inputSchema" type="ZodType" required>
  Zod schema that validates inputs at runtime
  
  Provides automatic validation and TypeScript types
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="execute" type="function" required>
  Async function that implements the tool's logic
  
  ```typescript
  async execute(input: any): Promise<any>
  ```
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="condition" type="function">
  Optional async function that determines if the tool should be available
  
  ```typescript
  async condition(): Promise<boolean>
  ```
  
  Use for premium features, feature flags, or user-specific availability
</ParamField>

## Skills vs Tools

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Tool">
    **Single Function**
    ```typescript
    // One specific thing
    class GetWeatherTool {
      // Gets weather for a city
    }
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Skill">
    **Collection of Tools**
    ```typescript
    // Multiple related things
    new LuaSkill({
      tools: [
        new GetWeatherTool(),
        new GetForecastTool(),
        new GetAlertstool()
      ]
    });
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## How It Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="User Request">
    User asks the AI: "What's the weather in London?"
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Tool Selection">
    AI reads the skill's `context` and determines `get_weather` tool is appropriate
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Input Validation">
    AI provides input: `{ city: "London" }`
    
    Input is validated against `inputSchema`
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Tool Execution">
    The `execute` function runs with validated input
    
    Calls weather API and returns structured data
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="AI Response">
    AI uses the tool's output to form a natural language response
    
    "The weather in London is 15°C and cloudy."
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Tool Naming Best Practices

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Good Names" icon="check">
    - `search_products`
    - `create_order`
    - `cancel_booking`
    - `get_user_profile`
  </Card>
  <Card title="Bad Names" icon="xmark">
    - `do_search` (too generic)
    - `process` (unclear)
    - `tool1` (not descriptive)
    - `get data` (spaces not allowed)
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Creating Your Agent (v3.0.0)

In v3.0.0, you configure your entire agent using `LuaAgent`:

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';

// Create your skill
const coffeeSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "coffee-shop-skill",
  description: "Coffee shop assistant",
  tools: [/* your tools */]
});

// Create agent (v3.0.0 pattern)
export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: "coffee-assistant",
  
  persona: `You are a friendly barista at Java Junction Coffee Shop.
  
Your role:
- Help customers browse the menu
- Take and confirm orders
- Suggest popular items
- Answer questions about ingredients

Communication style:
- Warm and welcoming
- Enthusiastic about coffee
- Patient and helpful
- Always mention daily specials`,

  
  skills: [coffeeSkill]
});
```

<Note>
**New in v3.0.0:** Use `LuaAgent` to configure persona, welcome message, and skills together in one unified configuration.
</Note>

### Why LuaAgent?

The new LuaAgent pattern provides:
- ✅ **Single source of truth** - All agent config in one place
- ✅ **Better organization** - Clear separation of persona, skills, webhooks, jobs
- ✅ **Auto-sync** - Automatically syncs with `lua.skill.yaml`
- ✅ **More features** - Support for webhooks, jobs, preprocessors, postprocessors

## Multiple Skills in One Project

You can organize tools into multiple skills and add them all to your agent:

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';

// Product browsing skill
const catalogSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "product-catalog-skill",
  description: "Product browsing and search",
  tools: [
    new SearchProductsTool(),
    new GetProductTool()
  ]
});

// Shopping skill
const shoppingSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "shopping-skill",
  description: "Shopping cart management",
  tools: [
    new CreateBasketTool(),
    new AddItemTool()
  ]
});

// Order fulfillment skill
const orderSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "order-skill",
  description: "Order creation and tracking",
  tools: [
    new CreateOrderTool(),
    new TrackOrderTool()
  ]
});

// Create agent with all skills (v3.0.0)
export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: "ecommerce-assistant",
  persona: "You are a helpful e-commerce shopping assistant...",
  skills: [catalogSkill, shoppingSkill, orderSkill]
});
```

### When to Use Multiple Skills

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Use Multiple When">
    - ✅ Tools serve different purposes (e.g., "HR Skill" vs "Sales Skill")
    - ✅ Different teams own different skills
    - ✅ Skills have different deployment schedules
    - ✅ Skills need different permissions
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Use Single When">
    - ✅ Tools work together closely
    - ✅ Small to medium number of tools (< 20)
    - ✅ All tools deploy together
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Example Patterns

### Pattern: CRUD Skill

```typescript
const dataSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "data-management-skill",
  description: "Complete CRUD operations",
  tools: [
    new CreateTool(),
    new ReadTool(),
    new UpdateTool(),
    new DeleteTool(),
    new SearchTool()
  ]
});
```

### Pattern: Workflow Skill

```typescript
const checkoutSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "checkout-skill",
  description: "Complete purchase workflow",
  tools: [
    new CreateBasketTool(),    // Step 1: Create cart
    new AddItemsTool(),        // Step 2: Add items
    new ReviewCartTool(),      // Step 3: Review
    new ApplyDiscountTool(),   // Step 4: Apply discounts
    new ProcessPaymentTool()   // Step 5: Complete
  ]
});
```

### Pattern: Integration Skill

```typescript
const integrationSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "external-integrations-skill",
  description: "Third-party service integrations",
  tools: [
    new SendEmailTool(),      // SendGrid
    new ProcessPaymentTool(), // Stripe
    new GetWeatherTool(),     // Weather API
    new TrackShipmentTool()   // Shipping API
  ]
});
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Platform APIs"
    icon="plug"
    href="/concepts/platform-apis"
  >
    Learn about built-in APIs for users, products, and data
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Build Your First Skill"
    icon="hammer"
    href="/getting-started/first-skill"
  >
    Follow a step-by-step tutorial
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Tool Examples"
    icon="layer-group"
    href="/examples/overview"
  >
    Explore 30+ working examples
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="API Reference"
    icon="book"
    href="/api/luaskill"
  >
    Complete LuaSkill API documentation
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs(cli): add sync command documentation
- Add new cli/sync-command.mdx with full documentation
  - Drift detection for name and persona
  - Colored diff display
  - Compile integration (--no-sync, --force-sync)
  - Best practices and common scenarios

- Update cli/overview.mdx
  - Add sync to command table
  - Add sync to quick examples
  - Add sync card in quick reference

- Update cli/skill-management.mdx
  - Add sync options section to compile command
  - Document --no-sync and --force-sync flags

- Update cli/troubleshooting.mdx
  - Add Sync Errors section

- Update concepts/workflows.mdx
  - Add lua sync to development workflows
  - Add sync to pre-deployment checklist
  - Add drift troubleshooting

- Update docs.json navigation
  - Add cli/sync-command to CLI Commands group

concepts/skills-and-tools.mdx, after:

---
title: "Skills & Tools"
description: "Understanding the core building blocks of Lua CLI"
---

## What is Lua?

Lua is a platform for building AI agents with custom capabilities. Think of it like:

```
AI Agent (ChatGPT-like)
    └── Skills (Custom capabilities you build)
        └── Tools (Specific functions the AI can call)
```

## Skills

A **skill** is a collection of related tools that give your AI agent specific capabilities.

### Example: Coffee Shop Skill

```typescript
import { LuaSkill } from "lua-cli";

const coffeeSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "coffee-shop-skill",
  description: "Coffee shop assistant with menu, ordering, and loyalty features",
  context: `
    This skill helps customers of Java Junction Coffee Shop.
    
    - Use show_menu to display available drinks and food
    - Use create_order to take customer orders
    - Use check_loyalty_points to show rewards balance
    - Use redeem_reward to apply loyalty discounts
    
    Always mention daily specials.
    Ask about size preferences for drinks.
  `,
  tools: [
    new ShowMenuTool(),
    new CreateOrderTool(),
    new CheckLoyaltyTool(),
    new RedeemRewardTool()
  ]
});
```

### Skill Properties

<ParamField path="name" type="string" required>
  Unique identifier for the skill (e.g., "coffee-shop-skill")
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="description" type="string" required>
  Brief description (1-2 sentences) of what the skill does
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="context" type="string" required>
  Detailed instructions for the AI on when and how to use the tools. This is critical for proper tool selection!
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="tools" type="LuaTool[]">
  Array of tool instances to include in the skill
</ParamField>

### Writing Good Context

The `context` field guides the AI's decision-making. Write it like instructions to a smart assistant:

<CodeGroup>

```typescript Good Context
context: `
  This skill manages customer orders for a coffee shop.

  Tool Usage:
  - show_menu: Use when customers ask what's available. Returns drinks and food items.
  - create_order: Use when taking an order. Confirm items and sizes first.
  - modify_order: Use to add/remove items. Ask which item to modify.
  - finalize_order: Use when order is confirmed. Returns total and wait time.

  Guidelines:
  - Always ask about size for drinks (small/medium/large)
  - Mention daily special when showing menu
  - Confirm total before finalizing
  - Ask about dietary restrictions for food items
`
```

```typescript Bad Context
context: "A skill with tools for stuff"
```

</CodeGroup>

## Tools

A **tool** is a single function that the AI can call to accomplish a specific task.

### Anatomy of a Tool

```typescript
import { LuaTool } from 'lua-cli';
import { z } from 'zod';

export default class GetWeatherTool implements LuaTool {
  // Unique identifier (lowercase, alphanumeric, hyphens, underscores)
  name = "get_weather";
  
  // Clear description of what the tool does
  description = "Get current weather conditions for any city";
  
  // Zod schema defining valid inputs
  inputSchema = z.object({
    city: z.string().describe("City name (e.g., 'London', 'Tokyo')"),
    units: z.enum(['metric', 'imperial']).optional().default('metric')
  });

  // Async function that implements the logic
  async execute(input: z.infer<typeof this.inputSchema>) {
    // input is automatically validated and typed
    const { city, units } = input;
    
    // Call weather API
    const weather = await fetchWeather(city, units);
    
    // Return structured data
    return {
      temperature: weather.temp,
      condition: weather.condition,
      city: weather.location
    };
  }
}
```

### Tool Properties

<ParamField path="name" type="string" required>
  Unique identifier using only: `a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `-`, `_`
  
  Examples: `get_weather`, `create-product`, `sendEmail123`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="description" type="string" required>
  Clear, concise description (1 sentence) of what the tool does
  
  Helps the AI understand when to use this tool
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="inputSchema" type="ZodType" required>
  Zod schema that validates inputs at runtime
  
  Provides automatic validation and TypeScript types
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="execute" type="function" required>
  Async function that implements the tool's logic
  
  ```typescript
  async execute(input: any): Promise<any>
  ```
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="condition" type="function">
  Optional async function that determines if the tool should be available
  
  ```typescript
  async condition(): Promise<boolean>
  ```
  
  Use for premium features, feature flags, or user-specific availability
</ParamField>

## Skills vs Tools

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Tool">
    **Single Function**
    ```typescript
    // One specific thing
    class GetWeatherTool {
      // Gets weather for a city
    }
    ```
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Skill">
    **Collection of Tools**
    ```typescript
    // Multiple related things
    new LuaSkill({
      tools: [
        new GetWeatherTool(),
        new GetForecastTool(),
        new GetAlertstool()
      ]
    });
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## How It Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="User Request">
    User asks the AI: "What's the weather in London?"
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Tool Selection">
    AI reads the skill's `context` and determines `get_weather` tool is appropriate
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Input Validation">
    AI provides input: `{ city: "London" }`
    
    Input is validated against `inputSchema`
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="Tool Execution">
    The `execute` function runs with validated input
    
    Calls weather API and returns structured data
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="AI Response">
    AI uses the tool's output to form a natural language response
    
    "The weather in London is 15°C and cloudy."
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Tool Naming Best Practices

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Good Names" icon="check">
    - `search_products`
    - `create_order`
    - `cancel_booking`
    - `get_user_profile`
  </Card>
  <Card title="Bad Names" icon="xmark">
    - `do_search` (too generic)
    - `process` (unclear)
    - `tool1` (not descriptive)
    - `get data` (spaces not allowed)
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Creating Your Agent (v3.0.0)

In v3.0.0, you configure your entire agent using `LuaAgent`:

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';

// Create your skill
const coffeeSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "coffee-shop-skill",
  description: "Coffee shop assistant",
  tools: [/* your tools */]
});

// Create agent (v3.0.0 pattern)
export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: "coffee-assistant",
  
  persona: `You are a friendly barista at Java Junction Coffee Shop.
  
Your role:
- Help customers browse the menu
- Take and confirm orders
- Suggest popular items
- Answer questions about ingredients

Communication style:
- Warm and welcoming
- Enthusiastic about coffee
- Patient and helpful
- Always mention daily specials`,

  
  skills: [coffeeSkill]
});
```

<Note>
**New in v3.0.0:** Use `LuaAgent` to configure persona, welcome message, and skills together in one unified configuration.
</Note>

### Why LuaAgent?

The new LuaAgent pattern provides:
- ✅ **Single source of truth** - All agent config in one place (code, not YAML)
- ✅ **Better organization** - Clear separation of persona, skills, webhooks, jobs
- ✅ **Auto-sync** - CLI auto-manages `lua.skill.yaml` (do not edit manually)
- ✅ **More features** - Support for webhooks, jobs, preprocessors, postprocessors

## Multiple Skills in One Project

You can organize tools into multiple skills and add them all to your agent:

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';

// Product browsing skill
const catalogSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "product-catalog-skill",
  description: "Product browsing and search",
  tools: [
    new SearchProductsTool(),
    new GetProductTool()
  ]
});

// Shopping skill
const shoppingSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "shopping-skill",
  description: "Shopping cart management",
  tools: [
    new CreateBasketTool(),
    new AddItemTool()
  ]
});

// Order fulfillment skill
const orderSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "order-skill",
  description: "Order creation and tracking",
  tools: [
    new CreateOrderTool(),
    new TrackOrderTool()
  ]
});

// Create agent with all skills (v3.0.0)
export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: "ecommerce-assistant",
  persona: "You are a helpful e-commerce shopping assistant...",
  skills: [catalogSkill, shoppingSkill, orderSkill]
});
```

### When to Use Multiple Skills

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Use Multiple When">
    - ✅ Tools serve different purposes (e.g., "HR Skill" vs "Sales Skill")
    - ✅ Different teams own different skills
    - ✅ Skills have different deployment schedules
    - ✅ Skills need different permissions
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Use Single When">
    - ✅ Tools work together closely
    - ✅ Small to medium number of tools (< 20)
    - ✅ All tools deploy together
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Example Patterns

### Pattern: CRUD Skill

```typescript
const dataSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "data-management-skill",
  description: "Complete CRUD operations",
  tools: [
    new CreateTool(),
    new ReadTool(),
    new UpdateTool(),
    new DeleteTool(),
    new SearchTool()
  ]
});
```

### Pattern: Workflow Skill

```typescript
const checkoutSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "checkout-skill",
  description: "Complete purchase workflow",
  tools: [
    new CreateBasketTool(),    // Step 1: Create cart
    new AddItemsTool(),        // Step 2: Add items
    new ReviewCartTool(),      // Step 3: Review
    new ApplyDiscountTool(),   // Step 4: Apply discounts
    new ProcessPaymentTool()   // Step 5: Complete
  ]
});
```

### Pattern: Integration Skill

```typescript
const integrationSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: "external-integrations-skill",
  description: "Third-party service integrations",
  tools: [
    new SendEmailTool(),      // SendGrid
    new ProcessPaymentTool(), // Stripe
    new GetWeatherTool(),     // Weather API
    new TrackShipmentTool()   // Shipping API
  ]
});
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Platform APIs"
    icon="plug"
    href="/concepts/platform-apis"
  >
    Learn about built-in APIs for users, products, and data
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Build Your First Skill"
    icon="hammer"
    href="/getting-started/first-skill"
  >
    Follow a step-by-step tutorial
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Tool Examples"
    icon="layer-group"
    href="/examples/overview"
  >
    Explore 30+ working examples
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="API Reference"
    icon="book"
    href="/api/luaskill"
  >
    Complete LuaSkill API documentation
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
