api/environment.mdx, before:

---
title: "Environment Utilities"
description: "Secure environment variable management"
---

## env()

Safely access environment variables in your tools.

```typescript
import { env } from 'lua-cli';

const apiKey = env('API_KEY');
const baseUrl = env('API_BASE_URL') || 'https://default.com';
```

## Function Signature

```typescript
env(key: string): string | undefined
```

<ParamField path="key" type="string" required>
  Environment variable name to retrieve
</ParamField>

**Returns**: `string | undefined` - Value of the environment variable, or `undefined` if not set

## Loading Priority

Environment variables are loaded in this order (later overrides earlier):

<Steps>
  <Step title="System Environment">
    Variables from your shell/system
    ```bash
    export API_KEY=value
    ```
  </Step>
  
  <Step title=".env File">
    Variables from project `.env` file
    ```bash
    # .env
    API_KEY=value
    ```
  </Step>
  
  <Step title="lua.skill.yaml">
    Variables from skill configuration
    ```yaml
    skill:
      env:
        API_KEY: value
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```typescript
import { env } from 'lua-cli';

export class MyTool implements LuaTool {
  async execute(input: any) {
    const apiKey = env('STRIPE_API_KEY');
    
    if (!apiKey) {
      throw new Error('STRIPE_API_KEY not configured');
    }
    
    // Use the API key...
    const response = await fetch('https://api.stripe.com/v1/...', {
      headers: {
        'Authorization': `Bearer ${apiKey}`
      }
    });
    
    return await response.json();
  }
}
```

### With Default Values

```typescript
const apiUrl = env('API_BASE_URL') || 'https://api.example.com';
const maxRetries = parseInt(env('MAX_RETRIES') || '3');
const debug = env('DEBUG') === 'true';
const timeout = Number(env('TIMEOUT') || 5000);
```

### Multiple Environment Variables

```typescript
export class EmailTool implements LuaTool {
  async execute(input: any) {
    // Get all required variables
    const apiKey = env('SENDGRID_API_KEY');
    const fromEmail = env('FROM_EMAIL');
    const fromName = env('FROM_NAME') || 'Support Team';
    
    // Validate required variables
    if (!apiKey) {
      throw new Error('SENDGRID_API_KEY is required');
    }
    if (!fromEmail) {
      throw new Error('FROM_EMAIL is required');
    }
    
    // Use variables...
  }
}
```

### Environment-Specific Configuration

```typescript
export class ApiTool implements LuaTool {
  async execute(input: any) {
    const environment = env('NODE_ENV') || 'development';
    
    // Use different config based on environment
    const apiKey = environment === 'production'
      ? env('PROD_API_KEY')
      : env('DEV_API_KEY');
    
    const baseUrl = environment === 'production'
      ? 'https://api.example.com'
      : 'https://api-dev.example.com';
    
    // Use environment-specific values...
  }
}
```

## Setting Variables

### Method 1: .env File (Local Development)

Create `.env` in project root:

```bash
# .env
STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_abc123
SENDGRID_API_KEY=SG.xyz789
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
MAX_RETRIES=3
DEBUG=true
```

<Warning>
Add `.env` to `.gitignore` - never commit secrets!
</Warning>

Create `.env.example` for documentation:

```bash
# .env.example
STRIPE_API_KEY=your_stripe_key_here
SENDGRID_API_KEY=your_sendgrid_key_here
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
```

### Method 2: lua.skill.yaml (Production)

Add to skill configuration:

```yaml
skill:
  env:
    STRIPE_API_KEY: sk_live_production_key
    SENDGRID_API_KEY: SG.production_key
    API_BASE_URL: https://prod.api.example.com
```

### Method 3: System Environment

Set in your shell:

```bash
# Temporary (current session)
export API_KEY=value

# Permanent (add to ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc)
echo 'export API_KEY=value' >> ~/.bashrc
```

## Best Practices

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Validate Required Variables">
    ```typescript
    const apiKey = env('REQUIRED_KEY');
    
    if (!apiKey) {
      throw new Error(
        'REQUIRED_KEY environment variable is not set. ' +
        'Please add it to your .env file or lua.skill.yaml'
      );
    }
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Use Descriptive Names">
    ```typescript
    // ✅ Good
    env('STRIPE_API_KEY')
    env('SENDGRID_API_KEY')
    env('WEATHER_API_KEY')
    
    // ❌ Bad
    env('KEY1')
    env('SECRET')
    env('TOKEN')
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Provide Defaults for Non-Secrets">
    ```typescript
    // Configuration with sensible defaults
    const apiUrl = env('API_URL') || 'https://api.example.com';
    const timeout = parseInt(env('TIMEOUT') || '5000');
    const retries = parseInt(env('MAX_RETRIES') || '3');
    
    // But NOT for secrets
    const apiKey = env('API_KEY'); // No default!
    if (!apiKey) throw new Error('API_KEY required');
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Don't Log Sensitive Values">
    ```typescript
    const apiKey = env('API_KEY');
    
    // ❌ Bad - Exposes secret
    console.log('API Key:', apiKey);
    
    // ✅ Good - Masked
    console.log('API Key:', apiKey ? '***' : 'not set');
    console.log('API Key configured:', !!apiKey);
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Type Conversion">
    Environment variables are always strings. Convert when needed:
    
    ```typescript
    // Numbers
    const port = parseInt(env('PORT') || '3000');
    const timeout = Number(env('TIMEOUT') || 5000);
    
    // Booleans
    const debug = env('DEBUG') === 'true';
    const enabled = env('FEATURE_ENABLED') !== 'false';
    
    // Arrays
    const hosts = (env('ALLOWED_HOSTS') || '').split(',');
    ```
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Common Patterns

### Pattern: Required Variable

```typescript
function getRequiredEnv(key: string): string {
  const value = env(key);
  if (!value) {
    throw new Error(`${key} environment variable is required`);
  }
  return value;
}

// Usage
const apiKey = getRequiredEnv('STRIPE_API_KEY');
```

### Pattern: Validation

```typescript
const apiKey = env('API_KEY');

if (apiKey && !apiKey.startsWith('sk_')) {
  throw new Error('API_KEY must start with sk_');
}

if (apiKey && apiKey.length < 32) {
  throw new Error('API_KEY is too short');
}
```

### Pattern: Caching

```typescript
export class MyTool implements LuaTool {
  private static cachedApiKey: string | null = null;
  
  private getApiKey(): string {
    if (!MyTool.cachedApiKey) {
      MyTool.cachedApiKey = env('API_KEY');
      if (!MyTool.cachedApiKey) {
        throw new Error('API_KEY not configured');
      }
    }
    return MyTool.cachedApiKey;
  }
  
  async execute(input: any) {
    const apiKey = this.getApiKey();
    // Use cached key...
  }
}
```

## Security

<Warning>
**Never commit secrets to version control!**

- Add `.env` to `.gitignore`
- Use `.env.example` for documentation
- Store production secrets in `lua.skill.yaml` or secure vault
- Rotate keys regularly
</Warning>

### .gitignore

```
# .gitignore
.env
.env.local
.env.*.local
```

## Troubleshooting

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Variable not found">
    **Problem**: `env('MY_VAR')` returns `undefined`
    
    **Solutions**:
    1. Check spelling in `.env` file
    2. Ensure `.env` is in project root
    3. Restart CLI command (variables loaded at startup)
    4. Check `lua.skill.yaml` for typos
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Changes not taking effect">
    **Problem**: Updated `.env` but value unchanged
    
    **Solution**: Restart the command:
    ```bash
    # Stop (Ctrl+C)
    lua chat  # Start again
    ```
    
    Or use `lua env` to verify and update variables
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Environment Variables Guide"
    icon="key"
    href="/concepts/environment-variables"
  >
    Complete guide to configuration
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Payment Tool Example"
    icon="credit-card"
    href="/examples/payment"
  >
    See environment variables in action
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs: update for state-only lua.skill.yaml architecture
YAML Structure:
- Remove persona from lua.skill.yaml examples (now stored in LuaAgent code)
- Remove env block from YAML examples (server-managed via `lua env`)
- Remove schedule from job YAML examples (defined in LuaJob code)
- Update lua.skill.yaml description as "state-only" manifest

Documentation Updates:
- api/environment.mdx: Remove YAML as env source, update error messages
- api/luaagent.mdx: Update "Auto-Sync" to "Persona Storage" section
- cli/overview.mdx: Clarify YAML contains IDs/versions only
- cli/persona-command.mdx: Update storage location to code
- cli/skill-management.mdx: Add note about persona in code
- concepts/environment-variables.mdx: Remove Method 2 (YAML), update troubleshooting
- examples/payment.mdx: Update env error messages
- overview/agent.mdx: Rename "Auto-Sync" card to "State Tracking"
- template/project-structure.mdx: Remove persona from YAML example

Aligns with lua-cli state-only YAML refactor

api/environment.mdx, after:

---
title: "Environment Utilities"
description: "Secure environment variable management"
---

## env()

Safely access environment variables in your tools.

```typescript
import { env } from 'lua-cli';

const apiKey = env('API_KEY');
const baseUrl = env('API_BASE_URL') || 'https://default.com';
```

## Function Signature

```typescript
env(key: string): string | undefined
```

<ParamField path="key" type="string" required>
  Environment variable name to retrieve
</ParamField>

**Returns**: `string | undefined` - Value of the environment variable, or `undefined` if not set

## Loading Priority

Environment variables are loaded in this order (later overrides earlier):

<Steps>
  <Step title="System Environment">
    Variables from your shell/system
    ```bash
    export API_KEY=value
    ```
  </Step>
  
  <Step title=".env File">
    Variables from project `.env` file
    ```bash
    # .env
    API_KEY=value
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

<Note>
For production, use `lua env` command to manage variables on the server.
</Note>

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```typescript
import { env } from 'lua-cli';

export class MyTool implements LuaTool {
  async execute(input: any) {
    const apiKey = env('STRIPE_API_KEY');
    
    if (!apiKey) {
      throw new Error('STRIPE_API_KEY not configured');
    }
    
    // Use the API key...
    const response = await fetch('https://api.stripe.com/v1/...', {
      headers: {
        'Authorization': `Bearer ${apiKey}`
      }
    });
    
    return await response.json();
  }
}
```

### With Default Values

```typescript
const apiUrl = env('API_BASE_URL') || 'https://api.example.com';
const maxRetries = parseInt(env('MAX_RETRIES') || '3');
const debug = env('DEBUG') === 'true';
const timeout = Number(env('TIMEOUT') || 5000);
```

### Multiple Environment Variables

```typescript
export class EmailTool implements LuaTool {
  async execute(input: any) {
    // Get all required variables
    const apiKey = env('SENDGRID_API_KEY');
    const fromEmail = env('FROM_EMAIL');
    const fromName = env('FROM_NAME') || 'Support Team';
    
    // Validate required variables
    if (!apiKey) {
      throw new Error('SENDGRID_API_KEY is required');
    }
    if (!fromEmail) {
      throw new Error('FROM_EMAIL is required');
    }
    
    // Use variables...
  }
}
```

### Environment-Specific Configuration

```typescript
export class ApiTool implements LuaTool {
  async execute(input: any) {
    const environment = env('NODE_ENV') || 'development';
    
    // Use different config based on environment
    const apiKey = environment === 'production'
      ? env('PROD_API_KEY')
      : env('DEV_API_KEY');
    
    const baseUrl = environment === 'production'
      ? 'https://api.example.com'
      : 'https://api-dev.example.com';
    
    // Use environment-specific values...
  }
}
```

## Setting Variables

### Method 1: .env File (Local Development)

Create `.env` in project root:

```bash
# .env
STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_abc123
SENDGRID_API_KEY=SG.xyz789
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
MAX_RETRIES=3
DEBUG=true
```

<Warning>
Add `.env` to `.gitignore` - never commit secrets!
</Warning>

Create `.env.example` for documentation:

```bash
# .env.example
STRIPE_API_KEY=your_stripe_key_here
SENDGRID_API_KEY=your_sendgrid_key_here
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
```

### Method 2: System Environment

Set in your shell:

```bash
# Temporary (current session)
export API_KEY=value

# Permanent (add to ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc)
echo 'export API_KEY=value' >> ~/.bashrc
```

## Best Practices

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Validate Required Variables">
    ```typescript
    const apiKey = env('REQUIRED_KEY');
    
    if (!apiKey) {
      throw new Error(
        'REQUIRED_KEY environment variable is not set. ' +
        'Please add it to your .env file or use `lua env` for production'
      );
    }
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Use Descriptive Names">
    ```typescript
    // ✅ Good
    env('STRIPE_API_KEY')
    env('SENDGRID_API_KEY')
    env('WEATHER_API_KEY')
    
    // ❌ Bad
    env('KEY1')
    env('SECRET')
    env('TOKEN')
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Provide Defaults for Non-Secrets">
    ```typescript
    // Configuration with sensible defaults
    const apiUrl = env('API_URL') || 'https://api.example.com';
    const timeout = parseInt(env('TIMEOUT') || '5000');
    const retries = parseInt(env('MAX_RETRIES') || '3');
    
    // But NOT for secrets
    const apiKey = env('API_KEY'); // No default!
    if (!apiKey) throw new Error('API_KEY required');
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Don't Log Sensitive Values">
    ```typescript
    const apiKey = env('API_KEY');
    
    // ❌ Bad - Exposes secret
    console.log('API Key:', apiKey);
    
    // ✅ Good - Masked
    console.log('API Key:', apiKey ? '***' : 'not set');
    console.log('API Key configured:', !!apiKey);
    ```
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Type Conversion">
    Environment variables are always strings. Convert when needed:
    
    ```typescript
    // Numbers
    const port = parseInt(env('PORT') || '3000');
    const timeout = Number(env('TIMEOUT') || 5000);
    
    // Booleans
    const debug = env('DEBUG') === 'true';
    const enabled = env('FEATURE_ENABLED') !== 'false';
    
    // Arrays
    const hosts = (env('ALLOWED_HOSTS') || '').split(',');
    ```
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Common Patterns

### Pattern: Required Variable

```typescript
function getRequiredEnv(key: string): string {
  const value = env(key);
  if (!value) {
    throw new Error(`${key} environment variable is required`);
  }
  return value;
}

// Usage
const apiKey = getRequiredEnv('STRIPE_API_KEY');
```

### Pattern: Validation

```typescript
const apiKey = env('API_KEY');

if (apiKey && !apiKey.startsWith('sk_')) {
  throw new Error('API_KEY must start with sk_');
}

if (apiKey && apiKey.length < 32) {
  throw new Error('API_KEY is too short');
}
```

### Pattern: Caching

```typescript
export class MyTool implements LuaTool {
  private static cachedApiKey: string | null = null;
  
  private getApiKey(): string {
    if (!MyTool.cachedApiKey) {
      MyTool.cachedApiKey = env('API_KEY');
      if (!MyTool.cachedApiKey) {
        throw new Error('API_KEY not configured');
      }
    }
    return MyTool.cachedApiKey;
  }
  
  async execute(input: any) {
    const apiKey = this.getApiKey();
    // Use cached key...
  }
}
```

## Security

<Warning>
**Never commit secrets to version control!**

- Add `.env` to `.gitignore`
- Use `.env.example` for documentation
- Store production secrets using `lua env` command (server-managed)
- Rotate keys regularly
</Warning>

### .gitignore

```
# .gitignore
.env
.env.local
.env.*.local
```

## Troubleshooting

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Variable not found">
    **Problem**: `env('MY_VAR')` returns `undefined`
    
    **Solutions**:
    1. Check spelling in `.env` file
    2. Ensure `.env` is in project root
    3. Restart CLI command (variables loaded at startup)
    4. For production, use `lua env` to verify variables on server
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Changes not taking effect">
    **Problem**: Updated `.env` but value unchanged
    
    **Solution**: Restart the command:
    ```bash
    # Stop (Ctrl+C)
    lua chat  # Start again
    ```
    
    Or use `lua env` to verify and update variables
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Environment Variables Guide"
    icon="key"
    href="/concepts/environment-variables"
  >
    Complete guide to configuration
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Payment Tool Example"
    icon="credit-card"
    href="/examples/payment"
  >
    See environment variables in action
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
