api/luaagent.mdx, before:

---
title: "LuaAgent"
description: "Unified agent configuration combining skills, webhooks, jobs, and processors"
---

## Overview

`LuaAgent` is the recommended way to configure your AI agent in v3.0.0+. It provides a single, intuitive configuration object that combines skills, webhooks, jobs, and message processors.

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from 'lua-cli';

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'my-agent',
  persona: 'You are a helpful assistant...',
  skills: [skill1, skill2]
});
```

<Note>
**New in v3.0.0:** LuaAgent replaces the need to export individual skills, webhooks, and jobs separately.
</Note>

## Why LuaAgent?

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Single Source of Truth" icon="bullseye">
    All agent components in one configuration object
  </Card>
  <Card title="Auto-Sync" icon="arrows-rotate">
    Automatically syncs with `lua.skill.yaml`
  </Card>
  <Card title="Better IDE Support" icon="code">
    Improved autocomplete and type safety
  </Card>
  <Card title="Clear Organization" icon="layer-group">
    Organized, readable agent configuration
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Constructor

### new LuaAgent(config)

Creates a new agent configuration.

<ParamField path="config" type="LuaAgentConfig" required>
  Agent configuration object
</ParamField>

## Configuration Parameters

### Required Fields

<ParamField path="name" type="string" required>
  Agent identifier used for organization and logging
  
  **Examples**: `'customer-support-agent'`, `'sales-assistant'`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="persona" type="string" required>
  Defines the agent's personality, behavior, tone, and capabilities
  
  **Should include:**
  - Who the agent is
  - What role they play
  - How they should communicate
  - What they can and cannot do
  - Any specific behaviors or rules
</ParamField>

### Optional Fields

<ParamField path="skills" type="LuaSkill[]">
  Array of skills (tool collections) the agent can use
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="webhooks" type="LuaWebhook[]">
  HTTP endpoints that can receive external events
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="jobs" type="LuaJob[]">
  Scheduled tasks that run automatically
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="preProcessors" type="PreProcessor[]">
  Functions that process messages before they reach the agent
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="postProcessors" type="PostProcessor[]">
  Functions that process agent responses before sending to users
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="mcpServers" type="LuaMCPServer[]">
  MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers providing external tools
  
  **Default**: `[]`
  
  **See**: [LuaMCPServer API](/api/luamcpserver)
</ParamField>

## Basic Example

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';
import GetWeatherTool from './tools/GetWeatherTool';

const weatherSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'weather-skill',
  description: 'Weather information',
  context: 'Use these tools to get weather data',
  tools: [new GetWeatherTool()]
});

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'weather-assistant',
  persona: 'You are a friendly weather assistant. Provide weather information when asked.',
  skills: [weatherSkill]
});
```

## Complete Example

```typescript
import { 
  LuaAgent, 
  LuaSkill, 
  LuaWebhook, 
  LuaJob,
  LuaMCPServer,
  PreProcessor,
  PostProcessor
} from 'lua-cli';

// Import your components
import { customerSupportSkill } from './skills/customer-support';
import { productSkill } from './skills/products';
import { orderSkill } from './skills/orders';
import paymentWebhook from './webhooks/payment';
import orderWebhook from './webhooks/order';
import dailyReportJob from './jobs/daily-report';
import cleanupJob from './jobs/cleanup';
import profanityFilter from './preprocessors/profanity-filter';
import addDisclaimer from './postprocessors/disclaimer';
import filesystemServer from './mcp/filesystem';

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'ecommerce-assistant',
  
  persona: `You are Emma, a helpful e-commerce assistant for Acme Store.
  
Your role:
- Help customers find products
- Assist with orders and cart management
- Answer product questions
- Process returns and exchanges

Communication style:
- Friendly and professional
- Patient and understanding
- Proactive with suggestions
- Clear and concise

Capabilities:
- Search product catalog
- Manage shopping carts
- Track orders
- Process payments
- Answer product questions

Limitations:
- Cannot ship orders manually
- Cannot modify pricing (suggest contacting manager)
- Cannot issue refunds over $100 (requires manager approval)
`,

  skills: [
    customerSupportSkill,
    productSkill,
    orderSkill
  ],

  webhooks: [
    paymentWebhook,
    orderWebhook
  ],

  jobs: [
    dailyReportJob,
    cleanupJob
  ],

  preProcessors: [
    profanityFilter
  ],

  postProcessors: [
    addDisclaimer
  ],

  mcpServers: [
    filesystemServer
  ]
});
```

## Persona Best Practices

### ✅ Good Persona

```typescript
persona: `You are Dr. Smith, a medical information assistant.

Role: Provide general health information and wellness tips.

Guidelines:
- Always clarify you're not a licensed doctor
- Recommend seeing professionals for serious concerns
- Use clear, non-technical language
- Be empathetic and supportive

Tone: Professional, caring, informative`
```

### ❌ Bad Persona

```typescript
// Too vague
persona: `You are helpful`

// Too robotic
persona: `I am an AI assistant that answers questions.`

// Missing boundaries
persona: `You can do anything the user asks.`
```

## Auto-Sync with YAML

When you run `lua compile`, the agent's persona and welcome message automatically sync to `lua.skill.yaml`:

```yaml
# lua.skill.yaml (auto-updated)
agent:
  agentId: your-agent-id
  persona: |
    You are Emma, a helpful e-commerce assistant...
```

When you run `lua init`, the YAML values sync to your `LuaAgent` in code.

## Multiple Skills Example

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';

// Organize tools by domain
const weatherSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'weather-skill',
  description: 'Weather tools',
  context: 'Use for weather queries',
  tools: [getWeatherTool, getForecastTool]
});

const calculatorSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'calculator-skill',
  description: 'Math tools',
  context: 'Use for calculations',
  tools: [addTool, multiplyTool, advancedMathTool]
});

const dataSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'data-skill',
  description: 'Data management',
  context: 'Use for storing and retrieving user data',
  tools: [saveDataTool, queryDataTool]
});

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'multi-purpose-assistant',
  persona: 'You are a versatile assistant that helps with weather, calculations, and data management.',
  skills: [weatherSkill, calculatorSkill, dataSkill]
});
```

## With All Components

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from 'lua-cli';
import { skills } from './skills';
import { webhooks } from './webhooks';
import { jobs } from './jobs';
import { preProcessors } from './preprocessors';
import { postProcessors } from './postprocessors';
import { mcpServers } from './mcp';

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'enterprise-assistant',
  
  persona: `You are an enterprise-grade AI assistant.
  - Professional and efficient
  - Data-driven and accurate
  - Proactive with insights
  - Security and privacy conscious`,
  
  skills: skills,
  webhooks: webhooks,
  jobs: jobs,
  preProcessors: preProcessors,
  postProcessors: postProcessors,
  mcpServers: mcpServers
});
```

## Dynamic Configuration

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from 'lua-cli';
import { env } from 'lua-cli';

// Load configuration from environment
const agentName = env('AGENT_NAME') || 'default-agent';
const customPersona = env('AGENT_PERSONA') || 'You are a helpful assistant';

// Conditionally add components
const skills = [coreSkill];
if (env('ENABLE_ANALYTICS') === 'true') {
  skills.push(analyticsSkill);
}

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: agentName,
  persona: customPersona,
  skills: skills,
  // Add webhooks only in production
  webhooks: env('NODE_ENV') === 'production' ? productionWebhooks : []
});
```

## Validation

The LuaAgent automatically validates:
- ✅ Name is provided and non-empty
- ✅ Persona is provided and non-empty
- ✅ All skills are valid LuaSkill instances
- ✅ All webhooks are valid LuaWebhook instances
- ✅ All jobs are valid LuaJob instances
- ✅ All MCP servers are valid LuaMCPServer instances
- ✅ Tool names are unique across all skills
- ✅ Component names follow naming conventions

## Migration from v2.x

**Before (v2.x):**
```typescript
// Multiple exports
export const skill1 = new LuaSkill({...});
export const skill2 = new LuaSkill({...});
export const webhook1 = new LuaWebhook({...});
```

**After (v3.0.0):**
```typescript
// Single export with LuaAgent
export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'my-agent',
  persona: '...',
  skills: [skill1, skill2],
  webhooks: [webhook1]
});
```

## Related APIs

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="LuaSkill" href="/api/luaskill" icon="puzzle-piece">
    Tool collections
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaTool" href="/api/luatool" icon="wrench">
    Individual tools
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaWebhook" href="/api/luawebhook" icon="webhook">
    HTTP endpoints
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaJob" href="/api/luajob" icon="clock">
    Scheduled tasks
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaMCPServer" href="/api/luamcpserver" icon="plug">
    External MCP tools
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## See Also

- [Quick Start Guide](/getting-started/quick-start)
- [First Skill Tutorial](/getting-started/first-skill)
- [Skills and Tools Concept](/concepts/skills-and-tools)

Commit message:

docs: update for state-only lua.skill.yaml architecture
YAML Structure:
- Remove persona from lua.skill.yaml examples (now stored in LuaAgent code)
- Remove env block from YAML examples (server-managed via `lua env`)
- Remove schedule from job YAML examples (defined in LuaJob code)
- Update lua.skill.yaml description as "state-only" manifest

Documentation Updates:
- api/environment.mdx: Remove YAML as env source, update error messages
- api/luaagent.mdx: Update "Auto-Sync" to "Persona Storage" section
- cli/overview.mdx: Clarify YAML contains IDs/versions only
- cli/persona-command.mdx: Update storage location to code
- cli/skill-management.mdx: Add note about persona in code
- concepts/environment-variables.mdx: Remove Method 2 (YAML), update troubleshooting
- examples/payment.mdx: Update env error messages
- overview/agent.mdx: Rename "Auto-Sync" card to "State Tracking"
- template/project-structure.mdx: Remove persona from YAML example

Aligns with lua-cli state-only YAML refactor

api/luaagent.mdx, after:

---
title: "LuaAgent"
description: "Unified agent configuration combining skills, webhooks, jobs, and processors"
---

## Overview

`LuaAgent` is the recommended way to configure your AI agent in v3.0.0+. It provides a single, intuitive configuration object that combines skills, webhooks, jobs, and message processors.

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from 'lua-cli';

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'my-agent',
  persona: 'You are a helpful assistant...',
  skills: [skill1, skill2]
});
```

<Note>
**New in v3.0.0:** LuaAgent replaces the need to export individual skills, webhooks, and jobs separately.
</Note>

## Why LuaAgent?

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Single Source of Truth" icon="bullseye">
    All agent components in one configuration object
  </Card>
  <Card title="Auto-Sync" icon="arrows-rotate">
    Automatically syncs with `lua.skill.yaml`
  </Card>
  <Card title="Better IDE Support" icon="code">
    Improved autocomplete and type safety
  </Card>
  <Card title="Clear Organization" icon="layer-group">
    Organized, readable agent configuration
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Constructor

### new LuaAgent(config)

Creates a new agent configuration.

<ParamField path="config" type="LuaAgentConfig" required>
  Agent configuration object
</ParamField>

## Configuration Parameters

### Required Fields

<ParamField path="name" type="string" required>
  Agent identifier used for organization and logging
  
  **Examples**: `'customer-support-agent'`, `'sales-assistant'`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="persona" type="string" required>
  Defines the agent's personality, behavior, tone, and capabilities
  
  **Should include:**
  - Who the agent is
  - What role they play
  - How they should communicate
  - What they can and cannot do
  - Any specific behaviors or rules
</ParamField>

### Optional Fields

<ParamField path="skills" type="LuaSkill[]">
  Array of skills (tool collections) the agent can use
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="webhooks" type="LuaWebhook[]">
  HTTP endpoints that can receive external events
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="jobs" type="LuaJob[]">
  Scheduled tasks that run automatically
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="preProcessors" type="PreProcessor[]">
  Functions that process messages before they reach the agent
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="postProcessors" type="PostProcessor[]">
  Functions that process agent responses before sending to users
  
  **Default**: `[]`
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="mcpServers" type="LuaMCPServer[]">
  MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers providing external tools
  
  **Default**: `[]`
  
  **See**: [LuaMCPServer API](/api/luamcpserver)
</ParamField>

## Basic Example

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';
import GetWeatherTool from './tools/GetWeatherTool';

const weatherSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'weather-skill',
  description: 'Weather information',
  context: 'Use these tools to get weather data',
  tools: [new GetWeatherTool()]
});

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'weather-assistant',
  persona: 'You are a friendly weather assistant. Provide weather information when asked.',
  skills: [weatherSkill]
});
```

## Complete Example

```typescript
import { 
  LuaAgent, 
  LuaSkill, 
  LuaWebhook, 
  LuaJob,
  LuaMCPServer,
  PreProcessor,
  PostProcessor
} from 'lua-cli';

// Import your components
import { customerSupportSkill } from './skills/customer-support';
import { productSkill } from './skills/products';
import { orderSkill } from './skills/orders';
import paymentWebhook from './webhooks/payment';
import orderWebhook from './webhooks/order';
import dailyReportJob from './jobs/daily-report';
import cleanupJob from './jobs/cleanup';
import profanityFilter from './preprocessors/profanity-filter';
import addDisclaimer from './postprocessors/disclaimer';
import filesystemServer from './mcp/filesystem';

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'ecommerce-assistant',
  
  persona: `You are Emma, a helpful e-commerce assistant for Acme Store.
  
Your role:
- Help customers find products
- Assist with orders and cart management
- Answer product questions
- Process returns and exchanges

Communication style:
- Friendly and professional
- Patient and understanding
- Proactive with suggestions
- Clear and concise

Capabilities:
- Search product catalog
- Manage shopping carts
- Track orders
- Process payments
- Answer product questions

Limitations:
- Cannot ship orders manually
- Cannot modify pricing (suggest contacting manager)
- Cannot issue refunds over $100 (requires manager approval)
`,

  skills: [
    customerSupportSkill,
    productSkill,
    orderSkill
  ],

  webhooks: [
    paymentWebhook,
    orderWebhook
  ],

  jobs: [
    dailyReportJob,
    cleanupJob
  ],

  preProcessors: [
    profanityFilter
  ],

  postProcessors: [
    addDisclaimer
  ],

  mcpServers: [
    filesystemServer
  ]
});
```

## Persona Best Practices

### ✅ Good Persona

```typescript
persona: `You are Dr. Smith, a medical information assistant.

Role: Provide general health information and wellness tips.

Guidelines:
- Always clarify you're not a licensed doctor
- Recommend seeing professionals for serious concerns
- Use clear, non-technical language
- Be empathetic and supportive

Tone: Professional, caring, informative`
```

### ❌ Bad Persona

```typescript
// Too vague
persona: `You are helpful`

// Too robotic
persona: `I am an AI assistant that answers questions.`

// Missing boundaries
persona: `You can do anything the user asks.`
```

## Persona Storage

Persona is stored in your `LuaAgent` code definition (in `src/index.ts`). The `lua.skill.yaml` file is state-only and tracks IDs and versions, not persona content.

When you edit persona using `lua persona`, it updates the persona field in your `LuaAgent` code directly.

## Multiple Skills Example

```typescript
import { LuaAgent, LuaSkill } from 'lua-cli';

// Organize tools by domain
const weatherSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'weather-skill',
  description: 'Weather tools',
  context: 'Use for weather queries',
  tools: [getWeatherTool, getForecastTool]
});

const calculatorSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'calculator-skill',
  description: 'Math tools',
  context: 'Use for calculations',
  tools: [addTool, multiplyTool, advancedMathTool]
});

const dataSkill = new LuaSkill({
  name: 'data-skill',
  description: 'Data management',
  context: 'Use for storing and retrieving user data',
  tools: [saveDataTool, queryDataTool]
});

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'multi-purpose-assistant',
  persona: 'You are a versatile assistant that helps with weather, calculations, and data management.',
  skills: [weatherSkill, calculatorSkill, dataSkill]
});
```

## With All Components

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from 'lua-cli';
import { skills } from './skills';
import { webhooks } from './webhooks';
import { jobs } from './jobs';
import { preProcessors } from './preprocessors';
import { postProcessors } from './postprocessors';
import { mcpServers } from './mcp';

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'enterprise-assistant',
  
  persona: `You are an enterprise-grade AI assistant.
  - Professional and efficient
  - Data-driven and accurate
  - Proactive with insights
  - Security and privacy conscious`,
  
  skills: skills,
  webhooks: webhooks,
  jobs: jobs,
  preProcessors: preProcessors,
  postProcessors: postProcessors,
  mcpServers: mcpServers
});
```

## Dynamic Configuration

```typescript
import { LuaAgent } from 'lua-cli';
import { env } from 'lua-cli';

// Load configuration from environment
const agentName = env('AGENT_NAME') || 'default-agent';
const customPersona = env('AGENT_PERSONA') || 'You are a helpful assistant';

// Conditionally add components
const skills = [coreSkill];
if (env('ENABLE_ANALYTICS') === 'true') {
  skills.push(analyticsSkill);
}

export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: agentName,
  persona: customPersona,
  skills: skills,
  // Add webhooks only in production
  webhooks: env('NODE_ENV') === 'production' ? productionWebhooks : []
});
```

## Validation

The LuaAgent automatically validates:
- ✅ Name is provided and non-empty
- ✅ Persona is provided and non-empty
- ✅ All skills are valid LuaSkill instances
- ✅ All webhooks are valid LuaWebhook instances
- ✅ All jobs are valid LuaJob instances
- ✅ All MCP servers are valid LuaMCPServer instances
- ✅ Tool names are unique across all skills
- ✅ Component names follow naming conventions

## Migration from v2.x

**Before (v2.x):**
```typescript
// Multiple exports
export const skill1 = new LuaSkill({...});
export const skill2 = new LuaSkill({...});
export const webhook1 = new LuaWebhook({...});
```

**After (v3.0.0):**
```typescript
// Single export with LuaAgent
export const agent = new LuaAgent({
  name: 'my-agent',
  persona: '...',
  skills: [skill1, skill2],
  webhooks: [webhook1]
});
```

## Related APIs

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="LuaSkill" href="/api/luaskill" icon="puzzle-piece">
    Tool collections
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaTool" href="/api/luatool" icon="wrench">
    Individual tools
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaWebhook" href="/api/luawebhook" icon="webhook">
    HTTP endpoints
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaJob" href="/api/luajob" icon="clock">
    Scheduled tasks
  </Card>
  <Card title="LuaMCPServer" href="/api/luamcpserver" icon="plug">
    External MCP tools
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## See Also

- [Quick Start Guide](/getting-started/quick-start)
- [First Skill Tutorial](/getting-started/first-skill)
- [Skills and Tools Concept](/concepts/skills-and-tools)
